[comment]: # " File: README.md"
[comment]: # "  Copyright (c) 2020-2024 Splunk Inc."
[comment]: # ""
[comment]: # "  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the \'License\');"
[comment]: # "  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License."
[comment]: # "  You may obtain a copy of the License at"
[comment]: # ""
[comment]: # "      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0"
[comment]: # ""
[comment]: # "  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under"
[comment]: # "  the License is distributed on an \'AS IS\' BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND,"
[comment]: # "  either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions"
[comment]: # "  and limitations under the License."
[comment]: # ""
[comment]: # " pragma: allowlist secret "
## Port Information

The app uses HTTP/ HTTPS protocol for communicating with the Tanium server. Below are the default
ports used by Splunk SOAR.

|         Service Name | Transport Protocol | Port |
|----------------------|--------------------|------|
|         http         | tcp                | 80   |
|         https        | tcp                | 443  |

## Asset Configuration

-   **API Token**

<!-- -->

-   An API token can be used for authentication in place of the basic auth method of username and
    password. If the asset is configured with **both** API token and username/password credentials,
    the token will be used as the preferred method. However for security purposes, once the token
    has expired or if it is invalid, the app will revert to basic auth credentials - the token must
    either be removed from or replaced in the asset config.

## API Token Generation

-   There are different methods of creating an API token depending on which version of Tanium is
    being used. Later versions allow token generation through the UI, while earlier versions require
    the use of curl commands.

-   **IMPORTANT: The default expiration of a generated token is 7 days. To reduce maintenance, we
    recommend setting the default expiration to 365 days. Note that you will have to repeat this
    process to generate a new token before the current token expires. Failure to do so will cause
    integration to break as your token will no longer be valid after such date.**

-   **The end user will need to add the SOAR source IP address as a "Trusted IP Address" when
    creating a Tanium API Token. They will also need to note the expiration time and create a new
    token accordingly.**

-   **The following information regarding API calls using curl commands and additional notes have
    been taken from the "Tanium Server REST API Reference" documentation. More information can be
    gathered by contacting Tanium Support.**

      

    ### UI

-   To generate an API token in the UI and to configure the system to use it, please follow the
    steps mentioned in this
    [documentation](https://docs.tanium.com/platform_user/platform_user/console_api_tokens.html) .
    On Tanium 7.5.2.3503, new API tokens can be generated by selecting Administration \> Permissions
    \> API Tokens \> New API Token. Depending on the version of Tanium, the UI may not contain the
    token creation button on the page and will only display a list of the existing API tokens. If
    this is the case, you will need to use the curl command method.

      

    ### Curl

-   To generate an API token using this method, a session string or token string will need to be
    acquired first through the Login API endpoint. Then, the session or token string will be passed
    in the header to get the API token. In the examples below, fields need to be passed in the API
    token request. **You MUST include the SOAR IP address as a trusted IP address.** It is also
    useful to include the **notes** field, as this can be useful in identifying the token after it
    is created since the token string is not visible in the UI using this method.

-   #### Login API Endpoint

      
    `       /api/v2/session/login      `

    #### Example Request

    `       $ curl -s -X POST --data-binary @sample_login.json https://localhost/api/v2/session/login      `

              # where sample_login.json contains:
              # {
              #   "username": "jane.doe",
              #   "domain": "dev",
              #   "password": "JanesPassword"    # pragma: allowlist secret
              # }
              

    #### Example Response

              {
                "data": {
                    "session": "1-224-3cb8fe975e0b505045d55584014d99f6510c110d19d0708524c1219dbf717535"
                    }
              }
                

-   #### Token API Endpoint

      
    `       /api/v2/api_tokens      `

    #### Example Request (session string):

    `       $ curl -s -X POST -H "session:{string}" --data "{json object}" https://localhost/api/v2/api_tokens      `

    #### Header Parameters

    | Field   | Type   | Description                                                                                                      |
    |---------|--------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
    | session | string | (Required) The Tanium session or token string. The session string is returned by the Log In and Validate routes. |

    #### Body Parameters

    | Field  | Type             | Description                                                                                                                                                                         |
    |--------|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
    | object | application/json | (Required) A json object containing fields "expire_in_days", "notes", and "trusted_ip_addresses". Be sure that the SOAR IP address is included in the "trusted_ip_addresses" field. |

    #### Example Request (with fields):

    `       $ curl -s -X POST -H "session:{string}" --data-binary @new_token.json https://localhost/api/v2/api_tokens      `

              # where new_token.json contains:
              # {
              #   "expire_in_days": 365,
              #   "notes": "My module token.",
              #   "trusted_ip_addresses": "10.10.10.15,192.168.3.0/24"
              # }
                

## Tanium Threat Response Typical Usage Example

To get the information from Tanium Threat Response, you will need to follow a certain flow of
actions to get what you want. First, you will need to decide which endpoint you want to gather
information from or perform actions on. Once this is determined, you need to create a connection to
it from Tanium using the `     create connection    ` action. The endpoint parameter can be
specified by hostname, IP address, or Client ID. The action will return the status of the connection
and if it is successful, will also return the **connection id** . The **connection id** will then be
used for certain subsequent actions.

You can test to see if your connection was made by running `     list connections    ` . It will
list the status of all current connections. An **active** status means you can run the other actions
to get information that you may need. Live connections will timeout and need to be recreated in
those cases. Connections to snapshots will stay open and should be closed after everything is
completed.

You can get the list of all the snapshots by running the `     list snapshots    ` action. It will
list all the snapshots, i.e., the snapshot files that are uploaded manually and the snapshots that
are captured through Tanium UI.

To delete a snapshot, you can run the `     delete snapshot    ` action by providing the **snapshot
id** , which can be obtained by running the `     list snapshots    ` action.
